Fromm Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
launch Ryan announcing show number
50 recorded Wednesday, February seven,
2007. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by Dunkin developer's
journal. The world's leading dug
net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott and
Carl, talk about the Microsoft
open ID collaboration. Hi, this
is Carl Franklin. You're listening to
the Hansel minutes from Hansel
minutes.com. Hope you're having a
good week, Scott, how are
you? Oh, I'm doing okay.
We, we haven't really announced
on the show, but we're
moving the, the publication date
of the shows to Thursday.
And we're just a day
late today. No, sure. No
big deal. You know, this
is our 50th show. It
is, huh? Yeah. Wow. 50
Hanselman. It shows. Yeah. And
hopefully we haven't run out
of anything to say, I
mean, one day we'll start
talking about our pets, but
until then, no, we won't.
Of course we don't want
to waste people's time. And
I think we've spent just
about enough time on the
whole idea of that being
the 50th show. So what's
the topic today, Scott? Well,
I think that we should
talk about open ID. We've
talked a little bit about
a card space in the
past. We've talked about the
general concept of identity on
a show recently, but given
the big announcement yesterday between
Microsoft and a whole pile
of web 2.0 companies, I
think it's worth talking about
what open ideas and why
our users should care. Our
readers or listeners should care.
So why don't you start
out by just telling us
what open ideas? Okay. So
we know what card space
is, right? So to put
it in the context of
card space card space is
Microsoft's 2.0 attempt at solving
a lot of the problems
around identity. And they're trying
to do it in a
very, very open way. So
they're using the Ws star
protocol, trying to solve the
whole idea of, of identity
across the network, across the
internet for everybody, not just
for Microsoft users, right? Except
the, the thing that you
use to log in the
thing that you use to
express who you are and
what you know, and all
the different things about identity
in the card space and
Vista world is a Microsoft
thing. It's called an identity
selector. So the, you know,
the big curtain of gray
that comes over the screen
as it pops up and
says, give me your card
space card. That's a Microsoft
thing. Now there are, as
we talked about in a
previous show identity selectors for
other platforms, there's a Java
based one, a Firefox three
has announced in their functional
requirements document that they're going
to have an identity selector
of their own. Now this
is all good and wonderful,
but kind of simultaneously going
on in the background, there
are lots of other people
concerned about the, the problem
of identity, the problem of
fishing, problem of fishing, where
you don't know where you're
going, you don't know where
you're visiting. And then the
problem of farming, P H
a R M farming, which
is where user sensitive information
is being logged. This is
like having a key logger
on your machine and you
don't know your passwords being
typed. I forget email spam,
which is all related to
identity. Absolutely. And cause some
of the things that are
important about identity, what they
call the laws of identity
are things like user control
and consent, right? You only
want to reveal information with
the user's consent, right? You
want to disclose the least
possible amount of information that
you need. And people need
to have a, what's called
a justifiable party. You need
to make sure that the
disclosure of information is really
limited to those parties that
are justifiable that really have
a need to know justifiable
parties is the third law.
It could be called the
need to know law, a
need to talk about directed
identity about private entities and
public entities and things like
that. And we need to
make sure we have a
consistent experience for, for everyone.
Kim Cameron is one of
the guys at Microsoft who's
really blazed the trail for
identity for, especially for card
space. Yeah, definitely. On the
Microsoft side, he is, he
is the man. He's the
face of identity at Microsoft.
So open ID is a,
is a, is an open
framework as well decentralized. And
it basically introduces the idea
of a, of a U
R I, which is an
old idea, right? And not
a URL, but a URL
URI just to is a
uniform resource identifier, which is
what a URL is. So
URL is a subset of
a URI URI as the
general idea of having a
protocol and a colon and,
and what else, but you
know, a URL is an
HDDP construct. Exactly, exactly. So
typically when you log in
somewhere, of course you use
your username and your password.
And unfortunately, a lot of
people have the same password
duplicated everywhere. So if someone
got ahold of one of
my passwords now, you know,
personally, I use a different
password for every site, but
I've got a tool that
helps make that possible. But
if I was using foo
for my password everywhere, and
someone found that out, they
could log in to Amazon
and use my password. They
could log into new egg
and use my password. And
I couldn't change it in
a, in a, in one
location. Now passport was the
Microsoft, Hey, handle your identity
through us. We'll handle it
for you. Open ID. You
could almost be called a
open and decentralized passport in
that no one can necessarily
control this. You, you take
control of your own identity.
And what they do is
they take the concept of
a URI and they expand
it to a user centric,
identity or identity. So in
other words, your username is
a URI, right? And what's
the most common URI that
people have. They have their
website, right? So your website
address like hanselman.com can then
become your URI because that's
something that you have, you
actually own that. Okay. That's
a really important thing to
just double mention because when
I think of a URI
being an identity, I think
of like, you know, the,
the addresses and identifiers we
used to use for remoting
and for, you know, calm
and, and all sorts of
crazy long URLs that are
cryptic, but you're right. I
mean, your blog, your website,
any, because you own it
that represents you. And it's
also very easy to when
it is your website to
go there and make sure
that it is you, If
you want to, to use
your blog, like I'm sure
many of our listeners either
have a blog or have
a, a website that they
control. Maybe it's somewhere that
they put their family pictures
and they want to use
that domain as their open
ID. It's, it's pretty straightforward.
Actually. You can just go
to hanselman.com and do a
view source and look right
in the meta-tags there for
two different links. You'll see
links that point to an
open ID server because my,
my system isn't necessarily an
open ID Provider. Yeah. I
want to use the URI.
I want to use my
URI hanselman.com. So what I
do is I put links
in my blogs, HTML that
point to who's handling who
I'm delegating this work to.
So what you do is
you go to my open
id.com and you sign up
for an open ID. So
I did that because open
idea.com is a, an open
ID provider. And then I
just point from the source
code of the HTML of
my website. And this is
really easy. Even if you
have a blog address and
you don't necessarily control the
domain, you can add this
to your blogs template. It
doesn't show up. It's not
seen by anyone. And then
this is the way of
saying, Oh, here's his provider
in the duty to use
the passport and metaphor. If
there was more than one
passport.com out there, I would
be able to possibly use
my website address as my
passport and passport would just
be kind of a party
that I relaying party. Let's
get back to this whole
idea of the provider is
the provider, the thing that
verifies and validates your identity.
Good point. Okay, let's get
back to that. So if
you're going to log in
to an open ID enabled
website, a website, that's gone
to the effort of doing
this, this integration, which isn't
very complicated, you would then
type in your open ID
URI. So I could go
to a blog. Like I
think that Simon, Simon Wilson
is a guy who's got
a blog and I think
we've got a, a shrink,
a URI for him. So
I could go to his
blog@ashrinkstir.com slash L U four.
And he explains how open
ID works. And I could
leave a comment. They are
logged into his blog and
there's a spot for entering
in my open ID. So
this is my, my username.
Now, even though he may
not have ever heard of
me before, right? I'm not
necessarily making an account on
his system, in the classic
username and password sense. A
lot of times we want
to enable a S a
server or an application for
something like identity. So he,
his website is going to
go to where your website
tells him to validate, and
that'll give him a yes
or no that No. So
I enter in my open
ID URI, and then his
website redirects me to the
open ID provider that is
let is listed. So he
goes, and he says his,
his, his library, his open
ID library, fetches my website
finds that link at the
top and looks at it
and then says, ah, I
see, we're going to parse
this HTML content, see the
tag for open ID server.
And then it's going to
communicate with that server because
I've just redirected him to,
in this case, the, my
open ID website, I'm going
to then log in to
that website. This is why
I use the kind of
the passport metaphor, but I
don't want anyone to think
that this is the next
version of passport. It was
just an example, but I'm
giving my secret, right? My
past my password at this
point to the centralized open
ID provider. So the provider
is the guy who keeps
your password. Is there a
password involved? Yeah. The past,
well, this is the trick.
So there's nothing about open
ID that says there has
to be a password. Certainly
this is part of what,
and we'll get to this.
When we talk about how
they integrated with card space,
because I'll be able to
log into an open ID
provider and give them a
card at some point, or
I could give them a,
you know, there's nothing about
open ID that says I
couldn't use a smart card
or some other secret, but
I basically, I have been
redirected to the open ID
server. And it is to
them that I need to
prove that it's me. Right.
I have an account with
those guys in this case.
I'll give them my name
and my password. I don't
need to give them my
name actually, because the consumer
let them know that, okay,
now the, the server and
the con and the person
who wants my information have
negotiated a, a onetime shared
secret. And then I get
logged in and I actually
get a, get a warning
from the open ID provider
that says such and such
a website. You know, Simon
Simon's website is requesting your
information. He wants your, your
email address or whatever. Let's
say I get this warning.
Who's me. Who's I, and
how does it come to
you? Okay. I'm sorry. Okay.
So I'm a guy who
wants to log into a
website. I go to an
open ID, enabled website, like
Simon's blog. I put in
my open ID in the
background, his blog parses that
HTML figures out who the
server is, gets a shared
secret temporarily with that server.
Then his, he actually redirection
the browser. So I've actually
redirected to another website in
the browser. That is my
open ID provider. Okay. I
log into my open ID
provider and because enough context
has been sent over to
that provider, he can then
go, all right. I see
that. It's you, here's someone
who's requesting information from you.
Is this okay? So you
can allow Watson the browser.
I get just a webpage
in the browser. This is
all done in HTML. There's
nothing about open ID that
requires JavaScript. Okay. So then
I'm being told by the,
this particular implementation of the
open ID server, do you
want to allow this once
or allow it forever? Right.
Allow it forever would be
the way of saying, I
want to auto log into
this guy's website just by
giving him my name, if
I'm logged in. And I
want to be, you know,
I want to remember my
password. Okay. Then, then the
consumer gets redirected to the
server so that the server
redirects back, and then it
checks to see what did
anyone tamper with things are
there that, that shared secret?
Is that still legit? So
there is some backwards chatter
going on in the background.
It's not an entirely client
side. Cause the client can
store state. You can store
things like cookies. Now there
is an alternative state called
the dumb mode Too ahead
of yourself. I just want
to make sure I want
to get the consumer experience
from this. So basically what
I'm going to do is
when I go to login
to somebody's web log, I
have to paste in my
URL. So it should be
pretty short, right? Well, short
type in your URL or
whatever your URL type it
in and you paste it
in or you, whatever you
do, you type it in.
So then you're redirected to
another website that says, Hey,
this website wants to do
such and such. And so,
and so will you allow
them yes or no? You
go, yes. And then you're
effectively rate rerouted back or
redirected back to the place
that you wanted to log
into. So that is, is
it that seamless? It really
is. Like if I go
to right, like you can
try this and follow with
me, even though you don't
have an open ID, we'll
go to  dot com.
with a Y and
a, it says a little
web 2.0 kind of cutesy
and my hot or not
type site. It's a little
social site. And the upper
corner, it says sign in
with open ID. So I
click on that and notice
the big text box has
a, an open ID icon
in it. It's kind of
a orange and gray icon.
That's the kind of the
standard way. It's a little
overlay that lives in the
text box, a standard way
of saying I support open
ID. Okay. You can go
ahead and try this. Carl,
I'm going to type in
hanselman.com and my open ID.
You go ahead and do
the same thing WVU. I'm
actually not at a computer,
so, Oh, okay. So I'm
doing that. I hit sign
in and I'm now in
the back. I just now
just been redirected to my
open ID and I look
in my Earl and there's
a shared secret. It's a
big, long, complicated thing. And
it looks like a typical,
typical, you know, passport or
Google accounts, kind of really
complicated URL thing that's been
passed in. And it says
you must log in to
authenticate as Scott Hanselman. So
my open ID, this free
open ID server, you can
go and get one of
these yourself. So yeah, that's
the missing thing is somewhere
you have to put in
a password, right? So now
if you look at my
URL, I'm on a secure
site for open ID on
my open id.com. And again,
there will be many, and
there are many open ID
servers. My open ID is
just the one that everyone's
using right now. So I
logged in and says, all
right, it says the site
identifying itself as giant.com has
asked us for confirmation that
this is your identity. Earl.
I have the choice. And
this is actually just in
HTML on the, my open
ID site allow forever allow
once or deny. Okay. I'm
just going to say, allow,
once now I'm looking at
now, I've been redirected back
to jet.com and they've negotiated
back and forth. And it
says, hello, hanselman.com. Cause that's
all it knows about me,
But, and this is a
good segue to this. Obviously
you can store more than
just your identity, your password.
You can store pieces that
you're addressing your, all that
other stuff that you like
to fill in. When you
order stuff from Amazon, Does
he have what's called personas?
And this is one of
the neat thing. You can
have multiple personas. And this
is really up to the
implementation of the open ID
server. So on the, my
open ID side, I can
go in and I can
say, here's my default persona.
And then I could say,
but this is different from
my public persona, right? I
might want to, I mean,
if I'm a person, if
you, maybe you just want
to be Carl F and
you don't want to spread
yourself around as Carl Franklin, you
could do that. You could
have, you could basically have
multiple personalities and sign in
for some things as one
person and other things as
another. And then you can
go back to the open
ID site and see I'm
clicking on sites. And I
can see the 12 open
ID sites that I have
trusted. I can see how
many times that I've approved
that site and I can
also deny them. So I
could actually go back and
say, well, I'm not going
to allow giant.com. I'm going
to remove that from the
list now. So I have
a complete list. And then
it says, if I want
to allow them explicitly, they
actually won't prompt me if
I'm already logged in. And
they won't, they'll automatically send
confirmation of my identity to
these sites. So it really
puts you into control. It's
a lot like what, what
card space intended to do
in tends to do, but
it's all done in the
browser. It doesn't have anything
to do with any kind
of client side stuff. So
of course, as such and
not requiring any JavaScript or
anything, it's very friendly. If
someone wanted to do Ajax
implementations of signing and stuff,
it's really, it doesn't care.
It's very open in the
way that it does things.
Yeah. And I, you know,
I can't help, but my
mind is wondering too, you
know, how can this work
for not just a web
identity, but for, you know,
spam and phishing and all
of those other kinds of
things. How, how does it
apply to those problems? Okay,
well, Spam is a larger,
a larger problem, but there's
a thing called an XR
eye, which is a new
kind of internet identifier. And
XRY as an extensible resource
identifier and UN UN UN
I name an I name
is something that is a,
is a kind of a,
an Sri, like if you
go to my blog and
you underneath my face, it
says, contact me. And it
says equals Scott dot Hanselman.
So equals Scott Hanselman is
my name. It's a unique
identifier that represents me. And
in the next unique to
what the world in unique
to the universe. Exactly. Okay.
You think you're the only
Scott Hanselman in the world?
No, no, there are I
names and then there are
there are I number? So
my guess my, my flip
question there gets to the
question, the real question is,
you know, who, how do
you pick one without making
sure, you know, while making
sure it's unique? Well, they
handle the uniqueness, but I
mean, a good question is,
am I the only person
that has hanselman.com? Yes, yes.
Does that suck for the
other Hanselman's in the world?
Yes, it does. You know,
I give them email if
they want, Did something validate
the fact that, that it
was available In this case,
the, the, the people at
the I name provider in
this case, just like, just
like when you decide to
get a, you there's a
directory, right. Does your username
on a particular site? Okay,
I get it. Okay. So
That these, in this case,
are also backward compatible
with IP addresses and DNS,
DNS addressing rather. So you
could actually use your IP
address as your I name,
I don't need. So what
I'm saying, so if you,
if you don't want to,
I could just use hanselman.com
and that could be my,
my XRY as well. Now
you can use your, I
name as an open ID
identifier, and then they'll automatically
do, do re resolution of
that. This is going to
be an open ID version
too. Although there are a
few implementations of one, one
that'll do this. So this
will mean that if I'm
not necessarily an individual who
wants to have a, a,
a website, or I don't
want to use my website
as my, my identifier, for
some reason, I could use
an XR. I, now I
got my, my name from
a company called two IDI
to IDI the number two
idi.com. And I use this
to prevent spam because it
basically gives me a form
that people can have to
fill out rather than emailing
me. And it proves that
they are a person by
doing the whole, send them
an email, and then they
have to click on a
link. And it identifies their,
at least if they're not,
if they are a bot,
there are clever enough bot
that could actually do all
that work for me. I
haven't gotten any spam through
it, through it yet. So
the point is though that
they're trying to have ways
for people to have these
unique identifiers. And yes, there
are more than one Scott
Hanselman. So there's no PR
no way to solve that
problem. But, you know, I
am the only in this
case person with hanselman.com and
the only person with that
equals Scott that Hanford. So
those can be used as
my identifiers so that I
don't have to go and
pick a username and all
these different places, you know,
theoretically ever again. Right. Okay.
Now on the, on the,
how do I identify myself
back to the, the open
ID server? That's really up
to that implementation of the
server. And again, the open
ID spec doesn't necessarily say
that it has to be
a password. So what they've
announced is a cooperation between
the card space team and
the open ID kind of
group of people. Cause it's
many, many people working on
this kind of thing I
was going to say, Yeah,
I mean, card space overlaps
a little bit in, in
car, in, in open ID,
does it not? Yeah, there
I been cards open ID
could sit by itself, but
there are some concern that
you could do a fishing
attack by faking out a,
an open ID provider. So
they could redirect me to
a bad guy. And then
I might type my password
in right integrating card space.
With open ID gives you
kind of the best of
both worlds. You get the,
you get the card space,
UI, the flexibility of, of
being able to export your
cards. It's more cryptographically significant
on the client side. Future
versions of card space will
include things like smart cards
and, you know, rotating tokens
and stuff. But open ID
is flexible enough that people
will be able to use
it. And then won't may
not necessarily have card space
on their system. So by
them collaborating, it allows identity
kind of identity 2.0 to
happen, regardless. Yes, card space
is a brilliant idea, but
to be clear, card space
is just an implementation of
this concept called information cards.
And they're, you know, there
will be many implementations card
space will just be the
one that's the most ubiquitous.
So tell us a little
bit about, again, about this
announcement that bill Gates made
at the RSA conference about
supporting open ID, Right? So
it's a big conference that's
going on actually right now,
I think it will be
done Friday in San Francisco.
And we've actually got some
people down there working in
the Microsoft booth. Stuart Solera
is down there given demos
on how to do card
space banking integration, which is
something that we do with
Kirlian. I was about 15,000
people down there and they
basically announced a partnership between
Microsoft companies like Jan rain,
skip and Verisign to integrate
an op inter-operate between card
space and open ID. Okay.
Wow. That's huge. It is
huge. And it's, it's huge
because it shows that this
is such a big problem.
There's really not as much
time for bickering as there
was in the past. And
I think that Microsoft is
starting to recognize when a
good idea happens and it's
not Microsoft's idea that they
should still get excited about
it and get behind it.
And when it is a
good idea. Yeah. So Microsoft
obviously recognizes that open ID
is going to be huge.
And Kim Cameron is very
pragmatic, right? He's the chief
architect of identity, right? So
they're going to work with
the community and integrate open
ID support in, in any
of the Microsoft identity server
products. And they're going to
make it a, make a,
what's called an information using
information cards with open ID
profile. So if I wanted
to make a website, I
really want it to support,
you know, either of these
options. I want someone to
come to my site and
be able to log in
with an open ID with
an X, with a, an
Sri, with a card space.
I want it to just,
I want it to just
work. Yeah. I don't want
to go and how, I
don't want to store passwords
on my, on my site.
I mean, imagine, think about
that. You want to sit
down tomorrow and make a
site to log in first,
the okay. Username, password, these
aren't things that we really
want to be in the
business of doing right. I
want to store a unique
identifier for this individual. I
might want to ask him
for information about himself, like
his name and his, his
first name, his last name
and his email address. And
I want to be able
to retrieve that in such
a way that it is
secure and I'm not gonna
necessarily store his secrets. Now
it's a couple of different
things there. Each time he
logs in, I can retrieve
those claims, those bits of
information, like his, his first
name and his last name
from the identity provider. So
I don't even technically have
to store his first name
and last name if I
don't want to. Right. Cause
that's, that's a claim about
who he is. Right. I
can store this unique identifier
at all. It takes the
heat off of you as
a, as a website owner.
You know who, who right
now currently is storing personal
information and your database, you
know, you're, you're liable for
that information if it gets
out Right. Exactly. Now of
course, having it centralized like
this, of course, there's all
sorts of anti-phishing things that
they can go on. They
can go and add like
this, you know, safe sign
in where you could have
them show a picture picture
of yourself. So if you
visited a site and somehow
you got fished and you
didn't see that picture of
yourself, and you might say,
Oh wow, I'm possibly getting
phished. People are also talking
about creating a white list.
So I could go. And
rather than if someone stole
some information and somehow was
able to start pretending to
be me, I could go
and say, I'm only going
to share my information with
these sites, blacklist everybody else.
Well, don't you do That
every time, anytime you log
in don't don't you don't
you do that. I mean,
the provider should have a
list of the sites that
you've logged into. Yeah. They
do have a site, but
right now they'll, they'll prompt
you. If you want to,
they'll say this new site
is designed to ask you
about, about something about yourself.
Do you want to allow
that? And you can allow
or disallow w with a
white list. You'd actually just
automatically disallow. I see. Now
there's also some cool stuff
going on. All the different
web 2.0 companies are getting
behind this. Like, have you
ever done claiming your blog
on Technorati? You know, I,
at that, and it Looked
a little bit complex and
I just said, nah, Yeah.
So you're also claiming, claiming
your blog Technorati is a,
is a website that keeps
track of all the technical
folks that are blogging. And
it's like a Google search
for blogs. Yeah. And it
also keeps track of the
interrelationships between those things. Right.
And when you make a
profile on Technorati, you have
to claim your blog. Basically,
they, they need you to
put a little bit of
HTML in your blog, so
then they can visit it
and prove that you are
the guy who really owns
that Earl. Right. So, so
I, so someone else can't
go on claim, hanselman.com, they're
integrating open ID services. So
you'll be able to claim
your blog by giving your
open ID. Cause if you
could log in, then obviously
you own that. You own
that, or what Benefit. And
it's a side tangent. I
know, but what's the benefit
of claiming your blog for
Technorati. Oh, that's yeah. That's
totally a tangent. It just
allows you to put picture,
you know, put a picture
up and say that this
is my blog, go in
and manage your ranking and
different stuff like that. I
don't pay any attention to
that to Technorati. But my
point was that this is
an example of a web
2.0 company who had an
existing concept of identity. And
they, they, they wanted to
prove that someone owned something
and raw and they invented
a way to do it.
I hear it puts some
HTML on your blog and
we'll trust that it's really,
you like go make a
post, put the word poop
in it, and then, Hey,
look, he posted, so you
must own the blog, right?
That was a weird little
dance that you had to
do with this particular web
2.0 company. But with open
ID that had an identity
solution, that was just obvious.
So it makes a lot
of sense that they would
just say, Oh, we'll, we'll
use open ID. That's, that's
exactly the problem that we're
trying to solve. So there's
a really great screencast. I
know this is a really
not a very easy thing
to talk about when you're
doing it over audio. Like
we are Simon will, Wilson
has got a, a great
screencast that is up at
shrink stir slash L U
three. If you look at
one link and this whole
show, just go to shrink,
stir slash L U three,
because it explains to you
how to use open ID.
And then he has a
link there called how to
turn your blog into an
open ID. So I think
that the kind of the
call to action for everyone
is to go add these
two lines of code to
your blog, sign up with
a, my open id.com and
then turn your blog into
an open idea and then
kind of take a look
around practice logging in, and
then we'll maybe we'll do
a show about how to
actually integrate with open ID.
Cause there's a lot of
really interesting things going on
around that. For example, a
company has, has made a
plugin to a patchy that
basically it's like, you know
how in, in IIS, we've
got forms, authentication and basic
auth and windows integrated off.
Yeah. They made a module
for Apache that just boom,
poof, it's automatically open ID.
So I might, I, I
always do this. I think
that I'll go, I'll get
the time to do that.
I'll write an HTTP module,
a forms, auth module for
open ID. Yeah. So I'll
declare here that I'll try.
And then probably two days
from now someone smarter than
me will have already pulled
it up. That's the way
it goes though, You know,
creating something like that, like
an authentication module for, for
open ID would pretty be
pretty awesome. And that's the
kind of, of integration I
think we're going to see.
So the Apache guys have
already got that plugable auth
module. It makes it really,
really easy. We've we're adding
it to DAS blog. I
talked to a couple of
guys that have said, yeah,
when I get time, I'll
get around to doing it.
You know, Kevin Hammond already did
the integration with, with card
space for DAS blog. So
I think more and more,
you're going to see at
the very least in the,
in the short term, this
will be a great way
to, to associate your identity
with an open ID for
the purpose of leading a
blog comment. Right. That's the
obvious thing, right? Yeah. Have
you ever gone to a
blog and wanted to leave
a comment? And then they
said, Oh, go ahead and
log in. No, I'll go
ahead and make a new
trend. Make a new ID.
No, like Rory, his blog
did this. No, I don't
remember that. No, I know
that they use the chop
scar or whatever the heck
gets called capture capture. Yeah.
Yeah. There's been a couple
of times in the last
week where I've really wanted
to leave a comment somewhere
and gadget is another example
and gadgets blog, and then
they want me, they want
me to create a profile.
I'm not going to, you
know, there's, there's a limit
to the kind of site
that I'm going to go
and create a profile on.
And I'm certainly not going
to Some of those bigger,
bigger sites I've I've had
that experience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So like for example, I
just I'm logging into a
WordPress blog. WordPress is a
real popular blog system and
it says, well, you can
log in as a WordPress
user with your username or
password or your open ID
identity. So then I'm getting
to my open ID side
again, and it actually says
select a persona. And then
it's saying they would like
to know my nickname and
my full name and my
email address. At this point,
I could just decide to
deny and say, I'm not
going to give them this
access, but they've actually said,
well, your nickname we'd like
that, but your full name
is optional. It's like, well,
that's cool. So I don't
know. I'm only going to
give them my email address
and I'm only going to
allow it once. And now
I'm logged into this WordPress
blog and really puts people
in control of their stuff.
Control of their identity. It's
actually makes me want to
run around to a bunch
of different websites and just
delete my information. Yeah. I
mean, start, start cleaning up
your, your, your identity online.
Cause you know, I've got
so many different accounts, probably
50 or 60. I mean
just of all the different
places that you've ever visited.
There is a benefit to
having all those accounts and
all those passwords in that
is if one of them
gets compromised, the rest don't
get compromised. Yeah. Having, having
anything in one place is
that that much more has
to be that much more
secure in order for the
not to fall on Your
head. Well, there's a lot
of really good resources out
there. Just search for open
ID on Google with, with
one word, open ideas, one
word we've put a collection
of links up on the
site. There's some really good
PHP libraries for open ID.
Open id.net, I believe is
the one of the home
bases for open ID. And
there's a couple of.net libraries
as well. I haven't personally
looked, looked at them. Although
one person has created a,
a guy named Andrew are
not, I didn't put this
link up, has created an
open ID control. So it's
just a drop the control
on the page. And it
enables that for open ID.
Oh wow. So I haven't
looked at that control personally.
There's Ruby implementations of this.
We'll add a link to
it anyway. Yeah. We'll add
a link. So there's, there's
lots of different ways to
get involved in this. And
I think that we're going
to see it becoming easier
and easier. Now a control
on informing asp.net perspective is
definitely maybe a little different
than I would. I do
things I may might want
an HTTP module, but if
you go up to open
ID enabled.com, that is kind
of the, all things open
ID. You can get python.net
libraries. the.net version is just
a port of the, of
the open ID stuff. All
right, Scott. Well, that's a
show. It's been a good
one. I can't wait to
dive into open ID a
little bit more. Thanks for
wedding our appetite as always.
Thank you. All right. We'll
see you next week on
handsome.